docs/source/contribs/development_MacARM.md, before:

# Tensorcircuit Installation Guide on MacOS

Contributed by Mark (Zixuan) Song

## Starting From Scratch

For completely new macos or macos without xcode and brew

### Install Xcode Command Line Tools

<font color=gray><em>Need graphical access to the machine.</em></font>

Run `xcode-select --install` to install if on optimal internet.

Or Download from [Apple](https://developer.apple.com/download/more/) Command Line Tools installation image then install if internet connection is weak.

## Install Miniconda

Due to the limitation of MacOS and packages, the lastest version of python does not always function as desired, thus miniconda installation is advised to solve the issues.

```
curl -o ~/miniconda.sh https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-arm64.sh
bash ~/miniconda.sh -b -p $HOME/miniconda
source ~/miniconda/bin/activate
conda install -c apple tensorflow-deps
```

## Install TC Prerequisites

```
pip install numpy scipy tensornetwork networkx
```

## Install TC Backends

There are four backends to choose from, Numpy, Tensorflow, Jax, Torch.

### Install Jax, Pytorch, Qiskit, Cirq (Optional)

```
pip install [Package Name]
```

### Install Tensorflow (Optional)

#### Install Tensorflow without MacOS optimization

```
conda config --add channels conda-forge
conda config --set channel_priority strict
conda create -n tc_venv python tensorflow=2.7
```

#### Verify Tensorflow Installation

```
import tensorflow as tf

cifar = tf.keras.datasets.cifar100
(x_train, y_train), (x_test, y_test) = cifar.load_data()
model = tf.keras.applications.ResNet50(
    include_top=True,
    weights=None,
    input_shape=(32, 32, 3),
    classes=100,)

loss_fn = tf.keras.losses.SparseCategoricalCrossentropy(from_logits=True)
model.compile(optimizer="adam", loss=loss_fn, metrics=["accuracy"])
model.fit(x_train, y_train, epochs=5, batch_size=64)
```

#### Install Tensorflow with MacOS optimization (Recommended)

For tensorflow version 2.13 or later:
```
pip install tensorflow
pip install tensorflow-metal
```

For tensorflow version 2.12 or earlier:
```
pip install tensorflow-macos
pip install tensorflow-metal
```

#### Verify Tensorflow Installation

```
import tensorflow as tf

cifar = tf.keras.datasets.cifar100
(x_train, y_train), (x_test, y_test) = cifar.load_data()
model = tf.keras.applications.ResNet50(
    include_top=True,
    weights=None,
    input_shape=(32, 32, 3),
    classes=100,)

loss_fn = tf.keras.losses.SparseCategoricalCrossentropy(from_logits=True)
model.compile(optimizer="adam", loss=loss_fn, metrics=["accuracy"])
model.fit(x_train, y_train, epochs=5, batch_size=64)
```

## Install Tensorcircuit

```
pip install tensorcircuit
```

Testing Platform (Tested Jun 2023)

- Platform 1:
  - MacOS Ventura 13.1 (Build version 22C65)
  - M1 Ultra
- Platform 2:
  - MacOS Ventura 13.2 (Build version 22D49)
  - M1 Ultra (Virtual)
- Platform 4:
  - MacOS Sonoma 14.0 Beta 2 (Build version 23A5276g)
  - M2 Max

Commit message:

Updated mac install guide and sklearn svm tutorial

docs/source/contribs/development_MacARM.md, after:

# Tensorcircuit Installation Guide on MacOS

Contributed by Mark (Zixuan) Song

.. warning::
    This page is deprecated. Please visit `the update tutorial <development_Mac.html>`_ for the latest information.

## Starting From Scratch

For completely new macos or macos without xcode and brew

### Install Xcode Command Line Tools

<font color=gray><em>Need graphical access to the machine.</em></font>

Run `xcode-select --install` to install if on optimal internet.

Or Download from [Apple](https://developer.apple.com/download/more/) Command Line Tools installation image then install if internet connection is weak.

## Install Miniconda

Due to the limitation of MacOS and packages, the lastest version of python does not always function as desired, thus miniconda installation is advised to solve the issues.

```
curl -o ~/miniconda.sh https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-arm64.sh
bash ~/miniconda.sh -b -p $HOME/miniconda
source ~/miniconda/bin/activate
conda install -c apple tensorflow-deps
```

## Install TC Prerequisites

```
pip install numpy scipy tensornetwork networkx
```

## Install TC Backends

There are four backends to choose from, Numpy, Tensorflow, Jax, Torch.

### Install Jax, Pytorch, Qiskit, Cirq (Optional)

```
pip install [Package Name]
```

### Install Tensorflow (Optional)

#### Install Tensorflow without MacOS optimization

```
conda config --add channels conda-forge
conda config --set channel_priority strict
conda create -n tc_venv python tensorflow=2.7
```

#### Verify Tensorflow Installation

```
import tensorflow as tf

cifar = tf.keras.datasets.cifar100
(x_train, y_train), (x_test, y_test) = cifar.load_data()
model = tf.keras.applications.ResNet50(
    include_top=True,
    weights=None,
    input_shape=(32, 32, 3),
    classes=100,)

loss_fn = tf.keras.losses.SparseCategoricalCrossentropy(from_logits=True)
model.compile(optimizer="adam", loss=loss_fn, metrics=["accuracy"])
model.fit(x_train, y_train, epochs=5, batch_size=64)
```

#### Install Tensorflow with MacOS optimization (Recommended)

For tensorflow version 2.13 or later:
```
pip install tensorflow
pip install tensorflow-metal
```

For tensorflow version 2.12 or earlier:
```
pip install tensorflow-macos
pip install tensorflow-metal
```

#### Verify Tensorflow Installation

```
import tensorflow as tf

cifar = tf.keras.datasets.cifar100
(x_train, y_train), (x_test, y_test) = cifar.load_data()
model = tf.keras.applications.ResNet50(
    include_top=True,
    weights=None,
    input_shape=(32, 32, 3),
    classes=100,)

loss_fn = tf.keras.losses.SparseCategoricalCrossentropy(from_logits=True)
model.compile(optimizer="adam", loss=loss_fn, metrics=["accuracy"])
model.fit(x_train, y_train, epochs=5, batch_size=64)
```

## Install Tensorcircuit

```
pip install tensorcircuit
```

Testing Platform (Tested Jun 2023)

- Platform 1:
  - MacOS Ventura 13.1 (Build version 22C65)
  - M1 Ultra
- Platform 2:
  - MacOS Ventura 13.2 (Build version 22D49)
  - M1 Ultra (Virtual)
- Platform 4:
  - MacOS Sonoma 14.0 Beta 2 (Build version 23A5276g)
  - M2 Max
